---
layout: post
title: ReSharper 4 EAP Roadmap
date: 2008-04-18 15:52
author: John
comments: true
categories: [All]
---
<p>I've been downloading a new set of <a href="http://www.jetbrains.net/confluence/display/ReSharper/ReSharper+4.0+Nightly+Builds">EAP bits for ReSharper 4</a> once a week since they opened access to the nightly builds and it really its coming together. The latest bits are much more stable than earlier versions and the features that are implemented are getting very close to being complete. </p> <p>ReSharper v3 is in full release but does not support some of .NET 3.5 and VS.NET 2008's best features. Here is a <a href="http://www.jetbrains.net/confluence/display/ReSharper/ReSharper+4.0+Roadmap">roadmap that I grabbed from the ReSharper</a> web site that outlines the highlights of Resharper v4. </p> <p>If you have not grabbed the latest EAP bits, I suggest you give them a try. As a rule I only grab ones that are listed as tested successfully by JetBrains. Otherwise I avoid them :) I am now using <a href="http://www.jetbrains.net/confluence/display/ReSharper/ReSharper+4.0+Nightly+Builds">EAP build 775</a> and have had not problems.</p> <p><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">ReSharper 4.0 is the next major version of the product featuring a number of important enhancements:</font> <ul> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Support for both Visual Studio 2005 and 2008 </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Comprehensive support for C# 3.0 language features, including: </font> <ul> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">New code analysis, context actions and quick-fixes </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">New refactorings (such as Convert to Extension Method, Convert to Automatic Property, Convert Anonymous Type to Named) </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Updated IntelliSense </font></li></ul> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Many more intelligence and productivity features </font> <ul> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Full set of refactorings available for VB.NET </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">New quickfixes and context actions for XAML files </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Referenced assemblies are now taken into account in null-reference analysis thanks to external annotations. ReSharper is packaged with annotations for the .NET Framework assemblies </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Code Cleanup — a tool for ensuring compliance with code guidelines and enhancing code structure </font> <li><font face="Tunga" color="#400080" size="3">Complete Statement — a feature that will complete language constructs and get you ready to write the next statement </font></li></ul></li></ul>

