---
layout: post
title: Day 2 of P90X
date: 2011-02-12 14:53
author: John
comments: true
categories: [p90x, Personal]
---
<p>Day 2 is in the books and it was pretty intense. It was about an hour of Plyometrics, which is a lot of squatting, jumping, moving your feet around, hopping, and doing flips. OK, well no flips, but it felt like it for some of the exercises.&nbsp; Day 1 was all weights and Day 2 is a lot of agility, flexibility, and cardio. It&rsquo;s a good thing I am in pretty good shape cardio wise, because I could easily see myself falling down during this one each week. I won&rsquo;t pretend it was easy for me, because it certainly was not. It was very difficult.</p>
<p>This morning (day 3) I&rsquo;m certainly feeling it in my quads and hamstrings. Totally expected of course. My lower back is sore from both days of workouts. It&rsquo;s something I&rsquo;ll work through, but it certainly does not help. It&rsquo;s the second recurring pain I have from my motorcycle accident 19+ years ago. But really, overall I feel as can be expected after 2 days of intense workouts.</p>
<p>Today is Day 3 where I&rsquo;ll be working out on my shoulders and arms program &hellip; and again the ab ripper program. I hope my muscles have recovered enough from Day 1. We shall see. The pushups from Day 1 alone were murder. I did 125 pushups on Day 1 .. sounds like a lot but I think the &ldquo;pros&rdquo; in the video did 350+ of them. I&rsquo;m still having nightmares of the div bomber push ups.</p>
<p>We cleaned out the pantry pretty well today and bought a ton of fruits and vegetables Which is fine since we like a lot of those (mostly fruits). We also bought Colleen a new blender (our old one was 16 years old and barely moved anymore) so now we are making smoothies and protein shakes. Sounds awful but really, for a picky guy like me I still love several variations of them. I tossed some strawberries, oranges and bananas into a chocolate protein shake drink for breakfast and it was amazingly good.</p>
<p>Of course we&rsquo;re eating pretty close to the plans they give. The first month it&rsquo;s a fat burning phase which is pretty high on protein and low on carbs. After that, the protein stays high but carbs go back up. It&rsquo;s a little hard because some of my favorite foods are pasta, white rice and bread. sigh. I still have some carbs each day so its not too bad. I need more protein in my diet anyway.</p>
<p>Thanks for all the support &hellip; I&rsquo;ll keep blogging and see where this leads.</p>

